hey everyone this is the mana source my
name is wedge welcome to this week's
tournament report today we'll be looking
at two major tournament events Grand
Prix Warsaw in Poland and the star city
opened in Salt Lake City Utah
additionally the star city open ran two
tournaments one on Saturday and one on
sunday will be looking at the top eight
finishers from each of these three
tournaments so let's see all the best
jund and green red aggro decks standard
has to offer with rotation less than two
months away it's one of the better times
for standard to behave the way it is now
since the 2014 course that came out
we've been seeing the format gravitate
towards a shrinking number of dominant
decks leading the charge of course is
jund jun mid-range variations took nine
out of the 24 top eight spots over the
weekend and a tenth deck Red John colors
but a zombie aggro list not far behind
is green red agro which is wasted no
time becoming one of the biggest threats
in standard it appeared in seven top
eight spots across three tournaments
including two of the winners the
remaining third of the tournament wins
went to a combination of other familiar
lists and variations ban hexproof black
green mid-range junk aristocrats and
blue white flash so let's not waste any
more time let's dive in and start
looking at these decks in detail John
continues to perform in a way that could
be described by any synonym for
domination seriously at the rate it's
going we might run out of ways to
describe its dominance before it rotates
among the aforementioned 9 topics
William Jensen and Zachary Jeffers
pallid similar decks to the top two of
the SCG sunday event the biggest
difference among jun decks was the
presence or absence of life bein zombies
the decks we saw this weekend either ran
two to four of them in the main deck or
none at all juns prominence makes them a
mixed bag it increases the odds of
weakening the intimidate ability should
an enemy aliyev aldaran hit the table on
the other hand it also ensures that
there will be plenty of dangerous green
creature cards to exile a good idea
considering the likes of hunt master of
the fells thragtusk and everyone's
favorites cat
news other unusual moves for the deck
include mizzium mortars and Rakdos key
rune showing up as one of Xin a handful
of lists also in John colors we saw an
unusual take on the color scheme at the
GP in Warsaw there Felipe Tapia becerra
took second place running a zombie aggro
deck in Jung colors this deck ran a
smaller land base and lower curve than
mid-range decks topping out at four mana
with Falcon Roth aristocrat the deck
also included innistrad block favorites
grave crawler duros messenger and blood
artist alongside these it ran newer
threats like a lot with tral dreg
mangler and death right shaman the decks
few non creature spells were proven
removal and burn like abrupt decay
brimstone volley tragic slip and Liliana
of the veil the other big deck of the
weekend was green red agro which has
spread considerably since last weekend
it's come a long ways since last
weekend's standard events to make a name
for itself and the name is dawn raid
decks were characterized by play sets of
the three drop planeswalker even those
that ran only three in the main deck ran
a fourth and sideboard wenzel crop men
ran this deck to win the GP in Warsaw it
also took 1st and 2nd in the SCG
saturday event under the command of
Jacob Toby and Roger Heber the deck
hasn't changed much since its inception
running men acceleration and aggressive
2 to 4 mana creatures a couple
interesting variations popped up over
the weekend haber promoted to volcanic
strength from sideboard to main deck to
respect the other green red and jun
decks meanwhile in the GP Robin Yan
splashed white for l'occitane smiter and
restoration angel he also ran a pair of
garret primal hunter main deck a
planeswalker in his waning days of
standard legality ban hexproof has
fallen out of the spotlight considerably
in recent weeks however it's far from
gone having taken three top eight
finishes across the weekend's events the
deck is still seeing variation among its
appearances some lists have taken to
running fiend Slayer paladin to
recognize the threat of jun and green
red agro regardless of matchup the
Paladin also provides a powerful first
striking blah
rocker that can gain you some life on
the side two of the weekends Dex ran
multiple copies of a Johnny color of
pride the decks also varied in sharm
usage with one using simac charms one
using one of each of that and selesnya
charm and one omitting charms entirely
four main decks spell ruptures
black-green mid-range made a sideline
appearance looking much like John would
if you stripped out read between the
decks two appearances in top baits this
past weekend the biggest differences
were in quantities of each card both
decks stepped up to a full set of
desecration demon this filled out a
creature curve also including life being
zombie disciple of bolus and thragtusk
black and green give the deck access to
a wide variety of removal abrupt decay
putrefy doom blade and tragic slip fill
out that roll mutilate pinch hits for
sweepers along the lines of bonfire or
mizzium mortars 3 Liliana of the veil
and a single rasca the unseen round out
the list junk aristocrats showed up in
the Star City open running a fairly
unique list among the weekends top decks
the deck basically ran with the best low
cost aggressive creatures it's black
green white mana base had to offer the
low curve includes the likes of young
wolf voice of resurgence blood artist
skur's dag high priest and barrels the
scar striped it tops out with
desecration demon at four mana tragic
slip and a single abrupt decay make up
the decks removal package meanwhile
lingering Souls and sore and Lord of
innistrad show up as token producers the
deck also runs a pair of gavin ii
township among its land base good for
making it smaller creatures relevant in
the late game our last deck this week
was blue white flash a new variation on
a slightly more colorful deck the deck
takes the red out of its previously more
popular cousin and also drops snapcaster
mage entirely adding planeswalkers jason
memory a depth and tammy oh the moon
sage in its place the decks focus its
non creature spells looks very much like
a blue white control list azorius charm
detention sphere and supreme verdict
along with counters like syncopate
essence scatter and dissipate keep the
board
clear think twice and sphinx's
revelation provide card advantage just
as well as they ever have the deck does
add blind obedience to slow down
aggressive foes and provide some
additional sustain and of course
restoration a Joe comes crashing in to
finish off opponents thanks again for
joining us for this week's tournament
review jun still seems to rule the earth
with green red close behind if you want
the lowdown on these decks so you can
play them yourself or if you want to
take a run and engineering their
downfall make sure to check out our deck
tech series we took a closer look at
John mid-range recently and tomorrow
we're doing the same for green red agro
subscribe to see these in all of our
videos as soon as they're out next
weekend the Grand Prix and Star City
open series are both off so our
tournament review series will be taking
a break as well but we'll see you in two
weeks with results from Grand Prix
kotaku shoe and the star city open in
Baltimore this is the mana source I'm
wedge thanks for watching and we'll see
you next time